---
layout: post
title:      "Why Software Engineering"
date:       2019-11-24 19:17:59 +0000
permalink:  why_software_engineering
---



The road that got me here has been strange and ever so winding. To be quite honest, I never thought I would be writing this blog post, enrolled in an immersive software engineering program in my thirties after investing so much of my time and energy (and money) into running a successful wedding photography business for the last six years. I thought I was going to be photographing weddings for the next ten or more years and then I had children. It changed a lot of things for me and now here I am at Flatiron.  

Growing up in Canada my dad was a computer guy. The type that loved to build things so I can still remember being annoyed at him for bringing home yet another empty desktop to work on and walking over motherboards, sharp chips and cables laying around our home constantly. I just never imagined working with computers myself. At the time I never realized the potential and I needed something more creative. I had always heard that the computer sciences were a male dominated field and felt that I would never fit into it. So, in college I pursued marketing and dabbled in some political science subjects. Post college I moved to the United States and had an opportunity to make my hobby in photography a full-time thing, and that’s what I did. It was rewarding, challenging and really fun! I have learned so much. However, after having kids I realized that the demands of running my own business and managing clients and long wedding days was not something I would be able to keep up with. At the same time, I had been thinking about what I would do once I was ready to get back out into the work force. My husband had been talking to me about coding and development for quite some time. He works in a software company and compared it to me pretty much already sitting behind my computers and working inside adobe photoshop for hours. One day my business website had stopped working and I was not able to get a response I needed from the designers in time, so I found my way into some back end somehow and starting googling how to fix the problems with the errors I was being given. I found a way to write a couple of single lines of code that actually got my email up and running again. I think that was my aha moment and after a little bit more research I realized this is something I wanted to dive deeper in. 

That is a little bit about how I got here and why I want to learn more about software engineering. I never realized the amount of opportunity there was in this growing field and that it wasn’t just for the those with a four-year college degree in computer sciences. Traditionally that may have been the case but there seems to be a growing shift and with the advancement of technology fields that is becoming more apparent. I am learning about all of the different aspects of what a software engineer can do with their knowledge and how I can continue to grow. Part of the reason I loved working with people as a wedding photographer was because of the ever-lasting impact, I realized my photos had in peoples lives even long after their wedding day was over. Getting the opportunity to capture some of the most important memories of a person’s life was so rewarding and a feeling I constantly chased. It was my little part in helping make people’s lives better that I was proud of.  Today I am learning not only how to code but about how technology can continue to improve people’s lives. Even with the rush of information coming at me and the steep learning curve I am realizing all of the potential it holds to help people all over the world in all aspects of their lives. Maybe that’s the type of thing I have always been meant to do. 


